LEONARDO SANTOS

Recife, 50040180 BRAZIL
+55 81 982995164
leonardo.l.santos@gmail.com

Summary

Veteran Full Stack Developer well-versed in numerous programming tools and languages. Proficient in both backend and frontend development. Highly effective at working on any phase of development process. Hardworking professional with remarkable technical abilities developed over 20 years of experience. Now looking for a remote opportunity. Preferably in backend development in Nodejs.

Skills

Time Management
Agile Development Methodologies
Databases: MYSQL, SQL SERVER, ORACLE
Source and Version Control: Git, Github

API Design and Development
Project Management
Teamwork and Collaboration
JS Frameworks: Node, Vue

Front-End Programming: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX
Back-End and Database Skills

Experience

May 2015 - Current
MPU - Brasilia, Brazil
Software Developer

Managed both back-end and front-end aspects of development process.
Assisted other developers with coding, troubleshooting and debugging.
Engaged with product management for requirements analysis and clarifications.
Completed code debugging and implemented fixes to resolve problems based on priority system.

January 2014 - May 2015
TJ-PE - RECIFE, Brazil
Developer Programmer

Wrote scripts and processes for data integration and bug fixes.

January 2009 - December 2013
SEFAZ-PE - RECIFE, Brazil
Project Manager Team Leader

Forecasted, scheduled and monitored project timelines, personnel performance
Orchestrated project schedules by outlining incremental milestones.
Maintained project files, books and correspondence in chronological date order for easy access and retrieval.
Communicated with key stakeholders to determine project requirements and objectives.
Participated in daily Scrum meetings to update on project progress.

August 2004 - January 2009
SEFAZ-AM - MANAUS, Brazil
Java Full Stack Developer

Modified existing software systems to enhance performance and add new features.
Utilized best practices to identify and remedy bugs in applications within specific timeframe.
Implemented Scrum-based Agile software development for analyzing, designing and developing applications.
Compiled code and corrected errors detected in compilation process.
Developed and customized Oracle reports and forms to meet functional business requirements.

January 2000 - July 2004
PORTAIS BRASIL TECNOLOGIA - RECIFE, Brazil
Project Manager

Forecasted, scheduled and monitored project timelines, personnel performance and cost efficiency.
Made changes to project scope and cost and implemented most effective change management processes to keep project up-to-date.
Managed contracts with vendors and suppliers by assigning tasks and communicating expected deliverables.
Use of FPA to measure of the functional size of software.

January 1998 - December 2000
WIT - RECIFE, Brasil
Full Stack Developer

Managed both back-end and front-end aspects of development process.
Supported systems and complex software applications at multiple client sites.
Led technical team to meet project deadlines and attain project objectives.
Coordinated system installations, testing and code corrections.

Education and Training

Expected in December 2022
CESAR RECIFE
MBA Development of Mobile Applications

UNIP MANAUS
High School Diploma